Document GHC-01239 (closes #288) (#391)
haskellfoundation/error-message-index: message-index/messages/GHC-01239/index.md

---
title: Unexpected if expression in function application
summary: If expression used as function argument
severity: error

> introduced: TODO

Author: I have no idea how to find out in which version of GHC this error was introduced. Any suggestions?

Reviewer: All error codes are introduced in 9.6.1, so thus far, it's not so difficult :-)

We should make it more clear that this documents which release the _code_ was introduced in.

---

Unlike in many other languages, in Haskell the If-Then-Else construct is an expression, which means it returns a value that can be processed further.

```haskell
ageMessage :: Int -> String 
ageMessage age = if age < 18 then "You are too young to enter" else "Welcome to the club"

putStrLn (ageMessage 10) -- You are too young to enter
putStrLn (ageMessage 20) -- Welcome to the club
```

> Thinking of If-Then-Else expression as a value, we might want to pass it as an input to a function.
> If you do that you can run into the following error.

Reviewer: Using both "we" and "you" to refer to the reader is potentially confusing. What about:

```suggestion
Because If-Then-Else expressions return values, it makes sense to pass them as input to a function.
However, without language extensions, Haskell's grammar requires parentheses around them in function argument positions.
```
